netapp ontap nas and san templates (#63)
IBM/ibm-satellite-storage: config-templates/netapp/netapp-ontap-san/20.07/README.md

# NetaApp Ontap-SAN Driver

The ontap-san driver provides the capability to dynamically provision and mange the lifecycle of the block volumes on Ontap.

## Prerequisites

> 
> **Planning consideration for Infra Admin**
> * Setup Ontap SAN Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* Create a cluster that meets the requirements for ONTAP SAN. For more information, see the [NetApp documentation](https://netapp-trident.readthedocs.io/en/stable-v20.07/support/requirements.html). Verify that your backend ONTAP cluster is configured as a Trident backend.
```

> * Share following details with Location Admin
>    - managementLIF
>    - dataLIF
>    - svm
>    - username
>    - password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review the template parameters and retrieve the values from your NetApp cluster.
```

> * The backend ONTAP cluster has been configured to be used as a Trident backend. Namely:
>    * A SVM must be dedicated for Trident. Volumes created by Trident will be placed in this SVM.
>    * One or more aggregates must be assigned to the SVM.
>    * One or more dataLIFs must be created for the SVM. Depending on the protocol used (iSCSI/NFS), at least one dataLIF is required.
>    * Ensure the SVM has snapshot policies set up to be used by Trident. It is recommended a default snapshot policy is created on the SVM being used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a cluster that meets the requirements for ONTAP NAS. For more information, see the [NetApp documentation](https://netapp-trident.readthedocs.io/en/stable-v20.07/support/requirements.html). Verify that your backend ONTAP cluster is configured as a Trident backend.
   * You must have a dedicated SVM for Trident. Volumes that are created by Trident are created in this SVM.
   * You must have one or more aggregates assigned to the SVM.
   * You must have one or more dataLIFs for the SVM. Depending on the protocol used (NFS/iSCSI), at least one dataLIF is required.
   * You must have NFS services enabled on the SVM.
   * You must set up a snapshot policy on the SVM.
```

## NetaApp Ontap-SAN Driver parameters & how to retrieve them

Retrieve all parameters required by this template
```
ibmcloud sat storage template get --name netapp-ontap-san --version 20.7
```

**NetaApp Ontap-SAN Driver parameters**

| Parameter | Required? | Description | Default value if not provided |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

> | `namespace` | Optional | Namespace for driver deployment | `trident-nas` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `namespace` | Required | The namespace where you want to install the storage drivers. | `trident` |
```

> | `managementLIF` | Required | IP address of ONTAP management LIF | `N/A` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `managementLIF` | Required | The IP address of the management LIF. Example: `10.0.0.1`. | N/A |
```

> | `dataLIF` | Required | IP address of protocol LIF | `N/A` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `dataLIF` | Required | The IP address of data LIF. Example: `10.0.0.2`. | N/A | 
```

> | `svm` | Required | Storage virtual machine to use | `N/A` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `svm` | Required | The name of the storage virtual machine. Example: `svm`. | N/A | 
```

> | `username` | Required | Username to connect to the storage device | `N/A` |
> | `password` | Required | Password to connect to the storage device | `N/A` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `username` | Required | The username to connect to the storage device. | N/A |
| `password` | Required | The password to connect to the storage device. | N/A |
```

> | `limitVolumeSize` | Optional | Maximum requestable volume size and qtree parent volume size | `50Gi` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `limitVolumeSize` | Optional | The maximum volume size that can be requested and the qtree parent volume size. | `50Gi` |
```

> | `limitAggregateUsage` | Optional | Fail provisioning if usage is above this percentage | `80%` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `limitAggregateUsage` | Optional | Limit the provisioning of volumes if the parent volume usage exceeds this value. For example, if a volume is requested that causes the parent volume usage to exceed this value, the volume provisioning fails.  | `80%` |
```

## Default storage classes

> Provide a table of the Satellite storage classes that are installed when your configuration is assigned to a cluster. Refer to the following example table. Add or remove storage class details based on the storage type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following storage classes are deployed when you assign your NetApp ONTAP-SAN configuration to your clusters.
```

| Storage class name | Type | File system | IOPs | Size range | Hard disk | Reclaim policy |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `sat-netapp-block-gold` | Ontap-SAN | Block | -- | -- | -- | Delete |
| `sat-netapp-block-silver` | Ontap-SAN | Block | -- | -- | -- | Delete |
| `sat-netapp-block-bronze` | Ontap-SAN | Block | -- | -- | -- | Delete | 

## Creating the NetaApp Ontap-SAN Driver storage configuration

> Provide example steps, including an example `config create` command for creating a Satellite storage configuration that uses your template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a Satellite storage configuration that uses the `netapp-ontap-nas` template.
```

**Example `sat storage config create` command**

```
ibmcloud sat storage config create --name ontapsan --template-name netapp-ontap-san --template-version 20.07 -p "managementLIF=10.0.0.1" -p "dataLIF=10.0.0.2" -p "svm=svm-nas" -p "username=admin" -p "password=admin-passW@rd"
```

## Creating the storage assignment

**Example `sat storage assignment create` command**

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assign your storage configuration to your clusters.
```

```
ibmcloud sat storage assignment create --name sandriver --group blockstore --config ontapsan
```

> ## Verifying your NetaApp Ontap-NAS Driver storage configuration is assigned to your clusters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Verifying your NetApp Ontap-SAN configuration is assigned to your clusters.
```

> Provide steps to retrieve any driver pods, storage classes, or any other resources that are deployed with your storage configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

```

> oc get pods 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
oc get pods -A | grep netapp
```

Reviewer: Provide an example

Reviewer: or `oc get all -n <namespace>`

```

```

> oc get sc | grep sat

Reviewer: Provide example output for this command.

```

**Example output**

> Provide an example output screen of running driver pods and storage classes that are deployed by your configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Troubleshooting

Provide troubleshooting steps for any known issues.

> 

Reviewer: Are there any troubleshooting steps to add here? If we don't have troubleshooting yet, then remove this section.

## Reference

> - https://netapp-trident.readthedocs.io/en/stable-v20.07/kubernetes/operations/tasks/backends/ontap/ontap-san/index.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- [NetApp documentation](https://netapp-trident.readthedocs.io/en/stable-v20.07/kubernetes/operations/tasks/backends/ontap/ontap-san/index.html)

```
